in the early days of Av Paul would not
allow anyone to do outreach except
himself there has always been this
bizarre attention with this group who
gets to speak who has to stand in
silence
Paul has always been in this movement to
gain a lifestyle of this type where he
can be worshipped and take the money and
travel for those of us with a long
memory who've been involved with vegan
activism and discussion surrounding
vegan activism here on YouTube we can
remember who Paul really was back when
he was doing collaborations with dairy
rider back when he was in Chiang Mai
Thailand back when it was very clear
that his objective was precisely the
permanent vacation lifestyle that people
misleadingly call being a professional
activist in the early days Paul wouldn't
allow anyone to do outreach except
himself
the volunteers role was only to hold the
laptop in a mask
he literally only wanted himself
associated with an audience of the
voiceless this is at the expense of
hundreds of interested people in a busy
High Street getting spoken to I remember
joking the pole wanted everyone
anonymous so people would only look at
him and only he would be in the photos
or the videos fame is fleeting the
exception being the contrast being when
you have someone he's fixated on
self-promotion who's fixated on the
pursuit of fame someone who wants the
full-time permanent vacation activist
lifestyle someone like Paul Bashir
the purpose of this video is not to
point the finger and say bad bad bad and
I'm in a privileged position to say that
because I have made videos in the past
that do indeed fulfill the purpose of
pointed a finger and saying bad bad bad
but in this video were really trying to
learn something meaningful from the key
study of what went right and what went
wrong with the integration and
disintegration of the worldwide movement
known as anonymous for the voiceless
associated with the phrase cube of truth
when you look at this picture right here
who man for those of us who've been in
the game for a few years
animal rights veganism ecology this
brings up a lot of memories right here
quote I've been reading through the
discussions here and thought that people
might benefit from knowing the history
of this form of activism a group called
London vegan actions particularly Phoebe
and Jane Frampton developed a tactic
called the Earthlings experience about
three or four years ago so by the way I
don't know when this comment was posted
but that's now more than three or four
years ago relative to current date in
2019 they would sit on a train and show
Earthlings whilst wearing white masks
they made a video telling people how to
do it and share this form of activism
with the world they didn't do any
outreach instead they would just give
little love heart cards to people with
short written messages already here
there's kind of so much to say Phoebe
Frampton and Jane Jane Frampton they
appeared on mainstream television
I believe BBC News but maybe it was ITV
but major British news stations
interviewed them and talked to them
they briefly really became kind of
iconic faces for veganism and the animal
rights movement and of course there's a
kind of selection bias at work there I
think they were like 18 at the time
approximately they were striking um slim
young women the reality is if you go to
animal rights events animal rights
conferences the majority of people are
overweight and over forty five actually
because if you look at this picture and
there's one picture oh this stereotype
that vegans are somehow strikingly
good-looking or even that they have a
remarkably low body mass index relative
Demeter's it's not that's not what you
see going to Anna Moritz conferences
going to be in protests going to these
events so you know these
young women were the in some ways they
had both social media bias in their
favor in some ways they had mainstream
media bias in their favor and they were
briefly given kind of a big platform
especially within the United Kingdom and
they used that to promote this peculiar
form of activism that I believe they
devised primarily because they found
themselves going back and forth on the
subway in England and they came up with
this method of sitting on the subway
wearing the masks showing the vegan
documentary on a portable computer
screen how popular was it how big was
the impact really well if you're
measuring it by the long-term
consequences today it seems like a
little spark that came and went right
and when you look back at major
political movements of the last 10 or 20
years and this got a lot of hype on the
internet but for one thing the
charismatic leaders Phoebe and her
sister Jane you know they finished
school I assume they finished whatever
kind of college they did they got
boyfriends and girlfriends and moved out
of London they moved to other cities and
they settle down and they moved on with
their lives I assume they got jobs you
know I'm within six degrees of
separation of these people but I don't I
don't pry
I don't ask too many questions but I
mean everyone could feel when after a
brief period of intense activity you
know the organization you know the
intensity just dissipated from your
decision so that's one element of the
vegan movement fame is fleeting the
exception being the contrast being when
you have someone who's fixated on
self-promotion who's fixated on the
pursuit of fame someone who wants the
full-time permanent vacation activist
lifestyle someone like Paul Bashir right
but these girls they were not like
publishers or they really were girls at
the time today they're fully grown women
whatever it's been now you know six
seven years later okay he continued any
way this tactic took off and people set
up Earthlings experience groups all over
the world
people would do it on the trains and
then they started moving to the streets
that began experimenting with showing
different types of footage wearing
different masks producing leaflets and
doing outreach groups all over the world
were experimenting and learning from
each other's innovations and we're doing
great
then anonymous for the voiceless was set
up in Melbourne they were originally a
group of seven but when they started
gaining a bit of popularity Paul and
DeSales just mentioned they were a
couple I don't think I don't know if
they're married but they were boyfriend
and girlfriend at least Paul in Dessau
hijacked the group deleted the other
admins and this caused a massive split
in the melbourne activist community
pretty much anyone who was experienced
on the street activist scene left AV
meeting in honest voiceless left
anonymous voice was as a result and they
were left with like five young
inexperienced volunteers and and to
rebuild with people brand new to
activism this part is really telling and
let me tell you something there's a
singing there's a saying that the you
know the head of the FBI used to quote
all the time an institution is the
length and the shadow of just one man
the character traits of Paul Paul Bashir
they tend to be reflected to a
remarkable extent in the type of power
mongering controlling little Hitler
personalities that end up in leadership
positions worldwide within this
organization and there's no conspiracy
there's no manifesto but people who are
attracted to and want to imitate the
example of what Paul is doing because
the rules he plays plays by and even how
he breaks the rules there's a pattern a
self-reinforcing pattern of bad behavior
here where you see not two three but
many figures very much like publisher
okay in the early days of Av Paul would
not allow anyone to do outreach except
himself there's always been this bizarre
tension with this group who gets to
speak
who has to stand in silence there's this
very unhealthy kind of hierarchy within
every cell and then also when you scale
it up on to the regional level
national level global level it is a very
unhealthy example of a hierarchal
organization with then of course a lot
of tension about money
anyway we continue in the early days
Paul wouldn't allow anyone to do
outreach except himself
the volunteers a role was only to hold
the laptop in a mask if they wanted to
take a break he would even ask them to
leave the area rather than be seen near
the demonstration without a mask he
literally only wanted himself associated
with anonymous of the voiceless this is
at the expense of hundreds of interested
people in a busy high street getting
spoken to I remember joking that Paul
wanted everyone anonymous so people
would only look at him and only he would
be in the photos or the videos a cell
was also allowed to not have a mask and
she would set people up with VR headsets
now for those of us with a long memory
who've been involved with vegan activism
and discussion surrounding vegan
activism here on YouTube we can remember
who Paul really was back when he was
doing collaborations with during Ryder
back when he was in Chiang Mai Thailand
back when it was very clear that his
objective was precisely the permanent
vacation lifestyle that people
misleadingly call being a professional
activist
please listen up there were seven on the
founding committee before Paul and a
cell ran off with the org when we were
in the process of registration and
completing other finer details they did
not start this they were only a part of
a group who did it was likely that
neither Paul Norris au was going to be
elected president and as soon as the
page started growing so the page share
meaning as soon as the Facebook page
started growing and taking off
witnessing the potential they decided
they'll take it a V was originally
founded under the right intentions to
not function as a typical hierarchy or
business but as an incorporated
Association until Paul and a sow quote
took Rowena close quote as he likes to
call it
they were never elected he claims to not
allow any human emotions in the way
whilst he bans people who
bo-zone therefore we are being silenced
I myself and others have been kicked out
of activist groups for simply answering
questions and correcting misinformation
this is not in the best interest of the
animals Paul has always been in this
movement to gain a lifestyle of this
type where he can be worshipped and take
the money and travel he saw this as an
opportunity after his YouTube gains
didn't quite gain right now there are
more chapters without TVs and speakers
batteries etc than with whilst they both
spend tens of thousands of dollars on
their lifestyle and travels they run
this as a business and anyone who buys
their merchandise and donates are being
fooled into thinking it goes to the
animals when it goes to their lifestyle
not saying people don't need a salary
but beasts accelerate be able to pay for
their lifestyle and should only come
after the chapters equipment the website
says that all funds and donations go to
developing and processing yet a huge
chunk goes into their pockets and
travels and who knows what else if not
true
show us be transparent so I just pause
here there is controversy for several
years I was gonna say many years the
organization hasn't existed for that
many years but for several years there
was a huge controversy because it was
incorporated legally only as a business
not as a charity and still to this day
neither the charity nor the business
have ever disclosed what happens to the
money so there's been an intentional
consistent lack of transparency
consistent refusal to deal with very
reasonable requests for financial
accountability from donors from
volunteers and so on however they do now
have an incorporated charity as well as
an incorporated business and all these
questions since the founding of the
organization they are very much still
circulating they're very the questions
are still being unanswered they're still
up in the air you don't need a poll in a
sales corruption and scam you don't need
a notice with a voiceless your group
will do better we
now let's pause her sitting here she
says you don't need Paul you don't need
this you don't need them what what do
people need most people need leadership
right most people need colleagues
companions friendship one of the most
fundamental needs that activism caters
to is that people don't want to feel
alone and most vegans live lives where
they're very much isolated they're very
much along whether or not anonymous
voiceless sees it this way or admits it
to themselves this way people volunteer
and go to these events and spend so many
hours doing a completely useless
repetitive task that could be done by a
mannequin you could have a mannequin
holding the computer monitor they do
this mindless task because they want to
meet other people you know whether for
friendship love romance colleagues
collaboration whatever and that's not
evil I have one friend friend of note
for many years and he said to me he was
not joking he said man talking to you
has ruined anonymous for the voiceless
for me he came he can't get any pleasure
out of this anymore he knows how bad the
organization is he knows how useless
this particular forum bag doesn't he
knows everything that's wrong with it
but but he said he still goes he still
goes to meet women
he's he's a heterosexual man now I mean
again for not everyone is it romance
could just be friendship colleagues or
what-have-you okay most people want
leadership precisely because they don't
want to be alone they don't want to feel
alone and they are willing to pay they
are willing to pay to have the privilege
of being lead they're willing to pay for
the privilege of being a follower that
may sound strange and perverse but this
is a very fundamental fact of 21st
century life long earth what I have
found again and again is that the worst
people on earth people who really are
power mongering little Hitler's become
the tyrants of these anonymous for the
Foxes groups and they ruled them with an
iron fist and they rule them with all
the pettiness of a kind of gossipy
school cleek I see that pattern again
and again and again and I don't think
there's a conspiracy and I don't think
it's written into the Constitution I
think that you know an institution is
the attenuated shadow of just one man
people are attracted to this they
respond positively to what they see in
Paul's character and Paul's behavior the
example Paul is setting and they behave
accordingly something similar might be
said at the meetings I've had where I
invite other vegan activist to meet up
with me when I was in Chiang Mai
Thailand I had meetups of this a couple
years ago now and you know obviously
some people were in Chiang Mai at that
time because they met durianrider that
wondered that was Paul was there at the
same time me and Paul were in Chiang Mai
at the same time as far as I know Paul
was there imitating durianrider trying
to both imitate him as a person and
economically imitate a success that was
what Paul wanted Paul wanted to be the
next daring writer have a youtube
channel that paid for this kind of
permanent vacation less though I was
there as someone who was a critic of
during Ryder someone who rejected during
writer rejected what was going on in the
being a movement that way and other
vegan activists who came to meet me you
know why did they choose to meet me
again there was no conspiracy it was was
no Constitution for them to sign up they
were people who respected what I had to
say there were people who in some sense
wanted to imitate the example what I was
sitting down so you know this this is a
clustering effect within political
organizations and sadly there's a lot
more harm than good the construct cui
bono who benefits who benefits from
activism it's people like Paul Bashir
who benefit from activism no special
absurd it's not people like me it's not
people like you it's not the animals who
benefits from the political process
professional politicians and
there were a lot of wealthy people who
want to make the world a better place I
can sympathize with them just as much as
I can scorn them I know that Paul has
benefited from the direct intervention
of a small number of wealthy donors in
much the same way as Gary Yourofsky in
the past benefited from the intervention
of a small number of wealthy donors and
of course we know that Paul has met with
Gary Yourofsky probably some of those
donors are the same people so we live in
a world where the power of political
speech rests in the hands of those who
are wealthy it rests in the hands of
those who are able to convince wealthy
people to donate their money and those
who are willing to make the moral
compromises to ask for that money and to
take